#labels Featured
= Detailed bug reports =

Some errors require more information than just a description about what happend.
In this case I'm always glad about some extra data.

= Script information =

The steps below work for Google Chrome, but Safari dev tools or Firefox/Firebug can be used, too (slightly different steps though).

 * In Chrome, open the dev tools _(menu -> tools -> developer tools, or ctrl+shift+i (win) / cmd+alt+i (mac))_
 * Switch to *"Network"*, Show only *"XHR"* (XML Http Requests) at the bottom
 * Open the raidplaner, login, reproduce the problem
 * Check for an entry called *"messagehub.php"* choose the last entry in the list with that name
 * From *"headers"* I need the content of *"Form data"*
 * From *"response"* I need a copy of everything included (select all, copy, paste)
 * If any javascript errors are reported (*"Console"* -> *"Errors"*) I need a copy/screenshot of those, too.

If you have access to the php.ini on your server it would be great to enable all errors before doing this:

 * error_reporting = E_ALL
 * display_errors = On
 * html_errors = Off

Note that these settings should be reverted to their original values once you're done.

= Detailed php information =

Sometimes an error needs more information about your php installation.
The easiest way to do this is by attaching a "phpinfo dump" to the bug report.
To create this you need to do the following:

 * Create a file called "phpinfo.php" (or something else as long as its ending with ".php")
 * The file should contain the following line: {{{<?php phpinfo(); ?>}}}
 * Upload the file and call {{{http://<your server here>/phpinfo.php}}}

The page displayed should show detailed information about your php installation.
Save this page as HTML or PDF and attach it to your bug report.