= Introduction =

As of Version 0.8.12 there is a setup script, located in the folder "setup". You can run this script to create your database and config files.<br>
If you've got problems with the script you can follow the instructions below to configure the raidplaner by yourself.

You need the following services to install the raidplaner:<br>
 * MySQL 4.1 or better
 * PHP 5.3 or better with mcrypt
 * At the moment Windows based servers will have problems with some pathes

= Manual setup instructions =

1. Copy the unzipped data in a separate folder on your server, e.g. "raid".

2. Import the database default layout (from the download section) into your database. A good tool for this is the import function from phpMyAdmin. All tables will be preceded by "raid`_`" so you can import everything into a database already in use by other systems (e.g. PhpBB3)

3. Create (or edit) the config files located in "lib/config" to match your setup.
The files are listed in the section below.

4. Login with the user "admin" and the password "admin".

You can change the password manually in the "raid_User" table by encoding your desired password with an SHA1 hash.<br>
The following defines can be made in each of the files listed below, e.g.
{{{
<?php
	define("SQL_HOST", "localhost");
	define("RP_DATABASE", "raid");
	define("RP_USER", "root");
	define("RP_PASS", "root");
	define("RP_TABLE_PREFIX", "raid_");
	define("ALLOW_REGISTRATION", false);
?>
}}}

= Config.php =

*SQL_HOST* refers to the server your database is running on, e.g. "mysqlhost.myhoster.com".

*RP_DATABASE* refers to the database you imported the default layout into, e.g. "mytable".

*RP_USER* refers to the mysql user that has access to the RP_TABLE, e.g. "root".

*RP_PASS* refers to the password of the given RP_USER.

*RP_TABLE_PREFIX* should not be changed unless you renamed all tables to use another prefix.
The default prefix is "raid_".

*ALLOW_REGISTRATION* should be set to "false" if you do not want users to register manually.
This only makes sense if your raidplaner is connected to e.g. a PhpBB3 forum.

= config.phpbb3.php =

*PHPBB3_BINDING* should be set to "false" if the raidplaner is not bound to a PhpBB3 Forum.
If you do that, ALLOW_REGISTRATION in the config.php should be set to "true".

*PHPBB3_DATABASE* refers to the database holding your PhpBB3 forum, e.g. "mytable".

*PHPBB3_USER* refers to the mysql user that has access to the PHPBB3_DATABASE, e.g. "root".

*PHPBB3_PASS* refers to the password of the given PHPBB3_USER.

*PHPBB3_TABLE_PREFIX* should be set to the value preceding all your PhpBB3 tables, e.g. "phpbb_".
Use an empty string if your tables have no prefix.

*PHPBB3_MEMBER_GROUPS* Should be a comma separated list of PhpBB3 group ids (e.g. "2, 3, 4").
Users within these groups will be automatically assigned the "member" status if they login the first time.

*PHPBB3_RAIDLEAD_GROUPS* Should be a comma separated list of  PhpBB3 group ids (e.g. "1").
Users within these groups will be automatically assigned the "raidlead" status if they login the first time.

You can find your PhpBB3 group ids in the table "phpbb_groups". The Id needed is from the column "group_id".

= config.eqdkp.php =

*EQDKP_BINDING* should be set to "false" if the raidplaner is not bound to an EQDKP installation.
If you do that, ALLOW_REGISTRATION in the config.php should be set to "true".

*EQDKP_DATABASE* refers to the database holding your EQDKP data, e.g. "mytable".

*EQDKP_USER* refers to the mysql user that has access to the EQDKP_DATABASE, e.g. "root".

*EQDKP_PASS* refers to the password of the given EQDKP_USER.

*EQDKP_TABLE_PREFIX* should be set to the value preceding all your EQDKP tables, e.g. "eqdkp_".
Use an empty string if your tables have no prefix.

Note that users with rights to edit raids in eqdkp are automatically considered raidleads.

= config.vb3.php =

*VB3_BINDING* should be set to "false" if the raidplaner is not bound to a vBulletin3 Forum.
If you do that, ALLOW_REGISTRATION in the config.php should be set to "true".

*VB3_DATABASE* refers to the database holding your vBulletin3 forum, e.g. "mytable".

*VB3_USER* refers to the mysql user that has access to the VB3_DATABASE, e.g. "root".

*VB3_PASS* refers to the password of the given VB3_USER.

*VB3_TABLE_PREFIX* should be set to the value preceding all your vBulletin3 tables, e.g. "vb_".
Use an empty string if your tables have no prefix.

*VB3_MEMBER_GROUPS* Should be a comma separated list of vBulletin3 group ids (e.g. "2,3").
Users within these groups will be automatically assigned the "member" status if they login the first time.

*VB3_RAIDLEAD_GROUPS* Should be a comma separated list of  vBulletin3 group ids (e.g. "6").
Users within these groups will be automatically assigned the "raidlead" status if they login the first time.

You can find your vBulletin3 group ids in the table "vb_usergroup". The Id needed is from the column "usergroupid".