= Current Status =

*_February 25th 2012_*<br>
Holy timewarp, Batman. As I already mentioned I switched guildes back in june last year ... well, turned out I quit WoW at around September. During all that time I did not either find time or motivation to continue the programming work.<br>
Well, things changed. I recieved several emails in the last weeks from people using the raidplaner. I got curious and had a look at my google analytics and ... erm ... wow. Turns out that placing the right keywords does work a lot better than expected :)<br>
Ok. Long story short - I am now continuing work on the raidplaner, starting with adding the last missing features already mentioned in the roadmap. I will also post some more frequent news on the progress on [https://plus.google.com/117920822853814771101 Google+]. The more people I see following me, the more motivated I will get ;) 

*_June 21st 2011_*<br>
Yeah, it's been a while since my last update, but I got quite a lot of things to do at home and at work (and sometimes work at home :/ ) so the raidplaner had to step back. Additionally I switched guilds in WoW, and my new Guild is using EQDKP now (which is still a pain in the ass to use), so I'm currently kind of "starving" on frequent feedback :/.<br>
However - I guess my work will keep me busy for an additional 1 or 2 weekends, so don't expect too many updates during that time. The good news about that: While "waiting" for a free weekend the folks a t jquery released a beta of their "mobile" jquery framework, which *might* just fix some issues I have with drag and drop so I now tend to wait a little bit more before going deeper into the touch device problems.<br>
This again means that I will most likely start to implement the new features like user statistics, etc. before returning to the touch device problems.

*_June 4th 2011_*<br>
I started experimenting with some jQuery plugins that enable touch events.
Sadly I did not yet find something that provides a convenient drag&grop solution similar to jQuery UI's draggable/droppable functionality. So that problem will be delayed a bit further. At the up side, I can now access a "double tap" event so that I can re-enable shortcut functions for touch devices, too.

As for the selection boxes, I decided to switch back to the "classic" style for mobile devices (removing the jQuery UI skin). This way I can let the device decide what's best without having to create any compromises for desktop PCs. The only thing left here is how to create an "editable selectionbox" which is not available with standard forms, but I guess a simple popup will do the trick here.

*_May 25th 2011_*<br>
My vacation, and a short crunch phase at work is over, so I guess development will start again soon.
During my vacation I had a chance to test the raidplaner on an iPad, but I was not really satisfied with the results.

The controls are much too small for touch devices and the layout is not ... well ... fitting the screen as it should. So I will add some more work to shrink the vertical size of the raidplaner to 720px (from now 768px), resize some buttons and play around with the selection boxes a bit more.

For the latter I'm not quite sure about how to handle those exactly. I could create a new skin which is more touch friendly, but this would also restrict the mouse users to a more "clunky" version, reducing the usability for the PC platform.
Removing the skin only for touch devices would help on iPhones (as they display an extra widget), but I've not yet tested that solution with android devices and there might be additional layout problems as I would always have to support two code pathes.

So before I start with the implementation of user statistics I will first make some changes to make the raidplaner more touch-friendly which will delay everything by another week or so.